ABtesting basic notes


 根据地里的面经，还有网上搜索的资料做了个A/B testing的整理，会有错误，希望能得到补充和指正。地里下个资料怎么权限设那么高，也太不友好了，老是提示我用户组没资格下。。。。分享求加米。。转专业水校master统计无工作经验找工作好难，投了一两百封，就只有一两个面试。
不想整理格式了，另外由于有好几张思维导图，我直接附google docs 链接 https://docs.google.com/document ... WE/edit?usp=sharing   
附件图片也在docs

Key Assumptions For A/B testing
Units are assigned randomly
Units are Independent

1 What unit you will choose to run the test?
Usually User_id. If no login process, then use device_id or cookie.
-baidu 1point3acres
2 Your colleague gave you two data set and told you they are test/control groups from an A/B test. What will you do to make sure the data set are appropriate to use?
A/A test.

3 What will you do if you find users been assigned to both test and control group? Do you have any concern?
Delete these users to ensure units are independent.

4 What metrics do you use to measure the the effect of the change? {What to compare? How would you know the impact of your experiment? How would you make a business/product decision with your experiment?}
Ask interviewer the goal. Clarify the goal of this product and their target user.

Data Exploration
Imbalanced Assignment
Mix Assignment
Sanity Check

1 Check for % of test/control units. Is the % matching DOE?
IF not match, need to figure out what’s the cause

2 Check for mixed assignment (same as the key assumption Question 3)
It’s hard to resolve. If # of mixed samples is small, OK to remove. If big, need to figure out what’s the cause
Follow up : What’s the problem of throwing away mixed samples?

3 Sanity Check: Are test/control similar in other factors other than treatment? (same as the key assumption Question 2). 1point3acres
A/A testing.

4 When we conduct random sampling, how to avoid network effect?
What is network effect (interference)? An experiment to give a better engagement. User A and User B are friends. User B is assigned to test group while User A is at control group. User B has a better experience that make him engage more. And then his engagement leads to a better engagement for user A.


Clustering groups with connections. Split these clusters into two parallel experiment.

A) An individual-level experiment, where members are sorted randomly into treatment or control groups. (与AB test一样，随机取样对照试验）
B) A cluster-based experiment, where a whole cluster (i.e., community) of users is either in treatment or in control. In other words, if I am treated, a significant proportion of my connections are also treated. If I am part of the control group, a significant proportion of my connections are also under control. （依照community来安排分组， 同一个cluster 都在一个组里）

Exposure And Duration For A/B Testing
1 What is your minimum sample size? What factors would you consider? How would these factors impact your sample size?
Need: statistical power, significant level, baseline rate, minimum detectable difference

2 How long would you run your experiment?
If sample size computed by last question is 5000, the daily traffic volume for the website is 2000. Only can have 10% of the volume, then test should run 25 days. 5000/(2000*0.1) .
And also consider about the seasonality, business cycle. It should be a complete business cycle. Usually a week.
. From 1point 3acres bbs
3 What will you do if your experiment take too long to run?. 1point3acres
Increase exposure from 10% to 20%.. check 1point3acres for more.
Based on the formula of sample size in Question 2:
Reduce the variance by Blocking –run experiment within sub-groups

4 What will you do to balance user experience and quick learning?-baidu 1point3acres
Don’t show A/B versions to all users. May lead to bad user experience if test version is bad.

5 What is your roll-out plan?
90-10. Starting with a small portion of their total audience and slowly increasing the sample size to a higher percentage of the audience until finally reaching 100%.. check 1point3acres for more.

Problems When Implementing
What if your data is highly skewed or statistics is hard to approximate with CLT?
Bootstrap. Shortage computational expensive.

Can you run an experiment and keep reading until the result is significant?
No. Highly increase the type 1 error (false positive rate)

What is the chance of seeing at least one rejection having 10 tests simultaneously?
follow up last question: 1-(1-0.05)^10

What if you have multiple test groups? multivariate?
Multivariate experiment will increase the type 1 error.
Bonferroni Correction: Assume we have m test; Set significant level for each test = 0.05/m (Default significant level =0.05)
FDR Adjustments(Benjamini-Hochberg): rank p value of m test from low to high. find the largest k such that p_k<=k/m*alpha; reject 1…..,k, accept K+1……
undefined

What if your key metrics dropped by 5% on first day? What if dropped by 20%?
Doesn’t matter for 5% drop. NOT frequently check result. NOT stop once result turns significant. Wait until get minimum sample size from experiment design.
Monitor for alarming changes that 20% drop. Pause and investigate if needed

What is bootstrap? Boosting?
A resampling method with replacement. It can be used to estimate sampling distribution of any statistics, commonly used in estimating CI & p-value & statistics with complex or no close-form estimator
The metrics of interest is 90th quantile of users’ spending. How to estimate sample mean and variance?
Use bootstrap.


Decision Making
What if your result show positive impact on some metrics and negative impact on some other metrics?
Meet expectations? Yes, ready to launch. Be cautious if result is too good. May need to investigate (e.g. outliers).
Measured the importance of each metrics. How much revenue can it bring if this metric increase. How much revenue may lose?

What if your result is neutral?
Slice on sub-groups.

What if you result is statistically significant but the margin is very small? don’t know. Hope someone can leave comments.